# Fremmy

## DART450 Final - Artist Statement

###The concept inspiration

Fremmy was inspired by one of the hypothetical starting points presented by Pippin on the DART450 course website: “Social media - one could imagine a webpage that extends on the idea of "social media" by extending it to a near-future vision of webpages/sites that serve as our friends in the absence of real world interactions with other humans.” This lead me to think particularly about the negative impacts of social media on our interpersonal relationships and the control they have over their users because of how consumed people become over their online persona. 

###The concept

I wanted to create a website and experience that would criticize the use of social media and its interference in interpersonal relationships. Fremmy enables and encourages the user to post information about themselves through a “humanized” user-experience. It then uses the information gathered to create a profile for the the user and “help" them connect with people who have similar interests or opinions. The name Fremmy came about because it felt fitting to use a catchy phonetic reference to the words friends, enemies and frenemies. 

###The “humanized” user-experience

Rather than inputting information yourself, Fremmy asks questions throughout the day, just like a friend would. In the morning, it asks questions such as how you slept, what you had for breakfast. Depending on your location, Fremmy will ask questions about what you’re doing or how you like the place. The main means to input the information is through predetermined voice recognition and multiple choice questions. The lack of control the user has over their own persona enhances the idea of the control that social media has over their users. When it comes to making friends (“Fremmies”), Fremmy initiates the conversation in your place by sending the people it matches you with a message. In other words, Fremmy will take care of your online persona and your interactions for you, and all you need to do is continuously feed it information. I would like to focus on a more humorous and hyperbolic approach to the concept. While the user-experience presents itself to be “humanized” (Fremmy talks to you, asks questions and “interacts” with you), the typography and general look of the webpage would be very “digital”. This contrast would further enhance the fact that its nothing more than a machine that has this much control over people’s lives.

###Social Media Impacts (Research and Inspiration)

In his article Social networking sites may be controlling your mind - here’s how to take charge, Simon McCarthy-Jones writes "Our intelligence, sexual orientation – and much more – can be computed from our Facebook likes. Machines, using data from our digital footprint, are better judges of our personality than our friends and family. Soon, artificial intelligence, using our social network data, will know even more. The 21st-century challenge will be how to live when others know us better than we know ourselves."

In her article Social Media May be Killing your Relationship, A. Rochaun Meadows-Fernandez says: “There’s some data that suggests frequent social media use has a negative correlation with levels of relationship satisfaction, and recent research has shown that individuals with multiple social media profiles often suffer from increased risk of depression. […] A good amount of tech-related conflicts happen in relationships: 42 percent report being distracted by their phones, 18 percent argue about the amount of time spent online, and 8 percent have conflicts due to what a partner does online.”

Dr. Emma Seppälä explains in her own article, 3 Ways Social Media Is Ruining Your Real-Life Relationships, a well-known fact about social media: "It's addictive and self-absorbing. Instead of deriving pleasure from your experience and the people around you, you seek it (along with validation) from your phone. Your brain’s pleasure centers also respond positively to novelty, which social media offers in a constant stream of new interactions, new posts, and new pictures every second. Ironically, a tool to connect you with others makes you feel you isolated and obsessed over the appearance you're making, the responses you’re getting, the impressions you are giving (Was what I wrote OK? How come there aren’t more likes?). Authentically connecting with others has numerous benefits. Self-focus, on the other hand, is associated with anxiety and depression."


###Join Fremmy Today!

Fremmy is a social media website that makes friends for you! It asks you different questions throughout the day and records everything in order to create status posts and based on what is said. Visiting somewhere new? Fremmy will take into account new locations and talk to you right away so that you can share with all you Fremmies! It then finds other people who are feeling or experiencing similar things based on keywords and options and sends them a message in your place, so you won’t have to worry about “what should I write first?". If it can’t find anyone, Fremmy will always be there to talk to you! The less connections you have, the more Fremmy will ask you questions. Making friends and feeling loved has never been easier. You no longer need to leave your house to meet new people, because Fremmy will do that for you. Fremmy will take into account things like location and time zones, just to make it easier to talk with your new friend. If for whatever reason things don’t work out, with the simple push of a button you can completely erase any traces of conversation you’ve had with them, as well as block any type of connection with them through Fremmy. But don’t worry, Fremmy will send them a message apologizing for cutting connection and explaining that it isn’t working out, so you won’t feel guilty. Fremmy will even make your profile for you! Based on your answers, Fremmy will continuously update your profile; no more anxiety about what to write or what pictures to post.
