## Inspiration

I was inspired by one of the hypothetical starting points presented on the course website: “Social media - one could imagine a webpage that extends on the idea of "social media" by extending it to a near-future vision of webpages/sites that serve as our friends in the absence of real world interactions with other humans.” This lead me to think about the known negative impacts of social media on our interpersonal relationships and the obsession with documenting and publicizing our lives online.

## Some examples of the impacts

In her article [Social Media May be Killing your Relationship](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/29/smarter-living/navigating-social-media-relationships.html), A. Rochaun Meadows-Fernandez says: “There’s some data that suggests [frequent social media use has a negative correlation with levels of relationship satisfaction](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563214001563), and recent research has shown that individuals with multiple social media profiles often suffer from [increased risk of depression](http://www.braininstitute.pitt.edu/using-lots-social-media-sites-raises-depression-risk). […] A good amount of [tech-related conflicts](http://www.pewinternet.org/2014/02/11/couples-the-internet-and-social-media/) happen in relationships: 42 percent report being distracted by their phones, 18 percent argue about the amount of time spent online, and 8 percent have conflicts due to what a partner does online.”

Dr. Emma Seppälä explains in her own article, [3 Ways Social Media Is Ruining Your Real-Life Relationships](https://www.mindbodygreen.com/0-24023/3-ways-social-media-is-ruining-your-reallife-relationships.html), a well-known fact about social media: "It's addictive and self-absorbing. Instead of deriving pleasure from your experience and the people around you, you seek it (along with validation) from your phone. [Your brain’s pleasure centers also respond positively to novelty](http://lifehacker.com/novelty-and-the-brain-why-new-things-make-us-feel-so-g-508983802), which social media offers in a constant stream of new interactions, new posts, and new pictures every second. Ironically, a tool to connect you with others makes you feel you isolated and obsessed over the appearance you're making, the responses you’re getting, the impressions you are giving (Was what I wrote OK? How come there aren’t more likes?). Authentically connecting with others has numerous benefits. [Self-focus, on the other hand, is associated with anxiety and depression.](http://www.psychologicalscience.org/index.php/publications/observer/2013/may-june-13/the-compassionate-mind.html)"

## The concept

I wanted to create a website that would criticize the use of social media and its interference in interpersonal relationships. Fremmy (a phonetic reference to the words friends, enemies and frenemies), would enable and encourage the user to post as much information about themselves through a “humanized” user-experience. It would then use the information gathered to create a profile for the the user and “help" them connect people who Fremmy considers “similar”. So what is the “humanized” user-experience? Rather than inputting information yourself, Fremmy would ask questions throughout the day, just like a friend would. In the morning, it would ask how you’re feeling, how you slept, what you had for breakfast. When you go to a new location, Fremmy would ask what you’re doing, if you’re having fun, what your plans are. The main means to input the information would be through voice recognition and choice of “emotes” rather than typing. When it comes to making friends (“Fremmies”), Fremmy would initiate the conversation in your place by sending the people it matches you with a message. In other words, Fremmy will take care of your online persona for you, and all you need to do is continuously feed it information. I would like to focus on a more humorous and hyperbolic approach to the concept; I would like to create a strong contrast between the integration with the webpage and the typography and colours used. While the user-experience would be very “humanized”, the typography and colours would be very “digital”. This contrast would further enhance the issue of using social media as such a big part of our interpersonal relationships.

## Join Fremmy Today!

Fremmy is a social media website that makes friends for you! It asks you different questions throughout the day and records everything in order to create status posts and based on what is said. Visiting somewhere new? Fremmy will take into account new locations and talk to you right away so that you can share with all you Fremmies! It then finds other people who are feeling or experiencing similar things based on keywords and options and sends them a message in your place, so you won’t have to worry about “what should I write first?". If it can’t find anyone, Fremmy will always be there to talk to you! The less connections you have, the more Fremmy will ask you questions. Making friends and feeling loved has never been easier. You no longer need to leave your house to meet new people, because Fremmy will do that for you. Fremmy will take into account things like location and time zones, just to make it easier to talk with your new friend. If for whatever reason things don’t work out, with the simple push of a button you can completely erase any traces of conversation you’ve had with them, as well as block any type of connection with them through Fremmy. But don’t worry, Fremmy will send them a message apologizing for cutting connection and explaining that it isn’t working out, so you won’t feel guilty. Fremmy will even make your profile for you! Based on your answers, Fremmy will continuously update your profile; no more anxiety about what to write or what pictures to post.

## Plan for code

Conditionals (Mainly for user interactions. For example, if user inputs “ham sandwich”, connect with another use who also input “ham sandwich”. Ask different questions depending on the time of day.)

jQuery UI, Events, Animate (Making the website as smooth and as pleasant to use as possible)

Annyang, responsivevoice, tracking.js (User-experience)
